user: cponcede 
user: jakerach

Write-up for PA3
----------------

1. Explain how you build the class graph and check that it’s well-formed.

The implementation of our class graph was fairly simple. We used the Classtable
class provided to us to implement this. In our Classtable, we stored a map whose
keys' represented the different classes created in our program, and whose
values' represented the classes they inherit from. To make this map, we took a
single pass through all classes in our program, and added them and their super
class to the map.

Once our map was formed, we could check the form of our inheritance graph. For
every key in our map, we created a set of visited classes and started to iterate
to its parent class over and over until we got to No_class (since Object is the
highest class, and Object inherits from No_class). On every iteration in this
second loop, we made sure that the new current class actually existed in our map
(so that we never inherit from a non existant class). We also checked if every
new current class was in our visited nodes, and if it wasn't, we inserted it. If
we found the current class in our visited nodes set, then we knew we hit a
cycle, since we should never see the same class twice in an inheritence tree


2. Explain how you handled opening and closing variable scopes.


In order to handle variable scopes, a static SymbolTable<Symbol,Entry> 
is kept as a global variable in semant.cc. According to the PA3 handout,
a new object identifier can only be introduced in one of four locations:

	a. Attribute definitions
	b. Formal parameters
	c. Let expressions
	d. Branches of case statements

Thus, we call st->enterscope() once when we encounter any of the above
scenarios while type checking. After entering a new scope, any new object
identifiers are added to the symbol table with their appropriate types.
Thus, in the object_class rule, when a lone object identifier needs to be
typed, the symbol table is guaranteed to have the declared type of that
variable, if the variable has actually been defined. We call
st->exitscope() when we have finished type checking the particular statement
that led to the introduction of the new variable (one of the four cases
above).


3. Explain how you implemented the typing rules from the COOL Manual.


Type checking is performed through a recursive search of the AST. At each
node, there is a verify_type() method that assigns the proper type of that
expression to the node's type field, or the type of Object if there was a
semantic error while verifying that rule. The rules themselves are taken
directly from the COOL manual. Our Object environment is implemented using
the SymbolTable that maps from variable names to declared types. The method
type environment, which is used to verify that dispatch calls are correct,
is created in an earlier pass of the AST and stored in a global static
MethodTypeEnvironment object. This object can be used to determine the
declared prototype of all methods and the attributes contained within all
classes. These two pieces of information, combined with the current_class
global variable that keeps track of what class is being type checked, are
all of the information required to completely implement each rule.

MethodTypeEnvironment is composed of a std::map that maps from a
Symbol class_name to a ClassMethodInfo object that contains information
about all attributes and methods in that class. ClassMethodInfo stores
this information in an attribute_map, which maps from attribute names
to attribute types, and a method_map, which maps from method names to
a MethodInfo object, which stores information about return types and
parameter types for a particular method.

Using this information, a particular expression can be assigned a type
by first recursively calling sub_expr->verify_type() on its subexpressions and
then using sub_expr->get_type() to ensure that the current rule is satisfied.


4. Explain your testing strategy.

Before explaining testing strategy, we have to explain our development process.
We wrote our compiler in three phases: inheritance graph, method type
environment, and scoping/type checking. Each step takes one pass through the
program. All tests, and materials useful for testing, live in the tests folder
that we have included in our submission.

Our inheritance graph tests live in tests/inheritance-graph-tests. Looking
through our included tests, you can see that we had a single file to test a
basic class inheritance graph, then multiple files for ill-formed output like
cycles, double class definitions, and undefined classes.

Much of our method type environment testing is no longer in the code base, since
it was superfluous code written in semant.cc, and it is tested inherently in our
type checking. We wrote a dump_type_environment method with many print
statements to ensure that our type environment was robust and well formed.

The meat of our testing comes in our scoping and type checking. To check well
formed output, we ran our semantic analyzer on every single test file in
/usr/class/cs143/examples/ . A couple of these files did have poorly formed
input (which did help us text), but we mostly used these files to make sure our
semantic analyzer ran smoothly on well formed input. All of our poorly formed
tests live in tests/ast-tests. These include topics ranging from self-type tests
to simple expression tests. Here, we found many possible compiler errors and
made sure to let our semantic analyzer report and handle all the errors we could
produce.
